in the previous video we talked about a
cost function for the neural network in
this video let's start to talk about an
algorithm for trying to minimize the
cost function in particular we'll talk
about the back propagation algorithm
here's the cost function that we wrote
down in the previous video what we'd
like to do is try to find parameters
theta to try to minimize J of theta in
order to use either gradient descent or
one of the advanced optimization
algorithms what we need to do therefore
is to my code that takes us input the
parameters theta and computes J of theta
and these partial derivative terms
remember that the parameters of the
neural network of these things theta
superscript L subscript IJ that that's a
real number and so these are the partial
derivative terms we need to compute in
order to compute the cost function J of
theta we just use this formula up here
and so what I want to do for most of
this video is focused on talking about
how we can compute these partial
derivative terms let's start by talking
about the case of when we have only one
training example so imagine if you will
that our entire training set comprises
only one training example which is a
pair XY not going to write x1 y1 just
writers right at one training example s
XY and let's step through the sequence
of calculations we would do with this
one training example
the first thing we do is we apply
forward propagation in order to compute
what our hypothesis actually outputs
given this input X concretely remember
recall that a1 is the activation values
of this first layer that is the input
layer so I'm going to set that to X and
then we're going to compute Z 2 equals
theta 1 a 1 and a 2 equals G the sigmoid
activation function applied to Z 2 and
this will give us our activations for
the first hidden layer that is for layer
2 of the network and we also add those
bias terms next we apply two more steps
of this forward propagation to compute a
3 and a 4 which is also the output of a
hypothesis it connects so this is our
vectorized implementation of forward
propagation and allows us to compute the
activation values for all of the neurons
in our neural network next in order to
compute the derivatives we're going to
use an algorithm called back propagation
the intuition of the back propagation
algorithm is that for each node we're
going to compute the term Delta
superscript L subscript J that's going
to somehow represent the error of node J
in layer L so recall that any
superscript L subscript J that that's
the activation of the JV unit in layer L
and so this Delta term is in some sense
going to capture our error in the
activation of that node or so how we
might wish the activation of that node
were slightly different concretely
taking the example neural network that
we have on the right which has four
layers and so capital L is equal to four
for each output unit we're going to
compute this Delta term so Delta for the
JV unit in the fourth layer is equal to
just the activation of that unit
- what was the actual value observed in
our training example so this term here
is can also be written H of X subscript
J right so this Delta term is just the
difference between what our hypothesis
outputs and what was the value of y in
our training set where this Y subscript
J is the jave element of the vector
value Y in our labeled training set and
by the way if you think of Delta a and Y
as vectors then you can also take this
and come up with a vectorized
implementation of it which is just Delta
for get set as a for - why we're here
each of these Delta for a for and why
each of these is a vector whose
dimension is equal to the number of
output units in your network
so we've now computed the error terms
Delta for for our network what we do
next is compute the Delta terms for the
earlier layers in our network here's the
formula for computing Delta 3 is Delta 3
is equal to theta 3 transpose times
Delta 4 and this dot times this is the
element wise multiplication operation
that we know from MATLAB so Delta 3
transpose Delta fold as a vector Z prime
Z 3 that's also a vector and so that x
is an element wise multiplication
between these two vectors
this term G prime of Z 3 that formally
is actually the derivative of the
activation function G evaluated at the
input values given by Z 3 if you know
calculus you can try to work it out
yourself and see if you can simplify it
in the same answer that I get
but so I'll just tell you pragmatically
what that means what you do to compute
this G prime these derivative terms is
just a 3 dot times 1 minus 8 3 where a 3
is the vector of activations 1 is a
vector once and a 3 is again
deactivation the vector of activation
values for that layer next you apply a
similar formula to compute Delta 2 where
again that can be computed using a
similar formula or you know this a 2
like so and I didn't prove it here but
you can actually possible to prove you
know calculus that this expression is
equal to mathematically the derivative
of the G function of the activation
function which I'm denoting by G Prime
and finally that's it and there is no
delta 1 term because the first layer
corresponds to the input layer and
that's just the features we observed in
our training set so that doesn't have
any error associated with it it's not
like we don't really want to try to
change those values and so we have Delta
terms only for layers 2 3 & 4 in this
example
the name backpropagation comes from the
fact that we start with computing the
Delta term for the output layer and then
we go back a layer and compute the Delta
terms for the third hidden layer and
then we go back another step to compute
Delta 2 and so we're sort of back
propagating the errors from the output
layer to layer 3 to layer 2 hence the
name back propagation finally the
derivation is um surprisingly
complicated and surprisingly involved
but if you just do these few steps of
computation is possible to prove very
frankly somewhat complicated
mathematical proof it's possible to
prove that if you ignore regularization
then the partial derivative terms you
want are exactly given by the
activations and these Delta terms this
is ignoring lambda or alternatively if
the regularization term lambda will
equal to 0 will fix this detail later
about the regularization term but so by
performing back propagation and
computing these Delta terms you can you
know pretty quickly compute these
partial derivative terms for all of your
parameters so this is a lot of detail
let's take everything and put it all
together to talk about how to implement
back propagation to compute derivatives
with respect to your parameters and for
the case of when we have a large
training set not just a training set of
one example here's what we do suppose we
have a training set of M examples like
that shown here the first thing we're
going to do is going to set these Delta
L subscript IJ so this triangle symbol
that's actually the capital of Greek
alphabet Delta the symbol we had on the
previous line was the lower case Delta
so the triangle is capital Delta when I
set this equal to 0 for all values of L
IJ eventually this capital Delta L IJ
will be used to compute
the partial derivative term partial
derivative respect to theta L IJ of J of
theta so as we'll see in a second these
deltas are going to be used as
accumulators that will slowly add things
to in order to compute these partial
derivatives next we're going to loop
through our training set so we'll say
for I equals 1 through m and so for the
iFit eration we're going to be working
with the training example X I comma 1 I
so the first thing I'm going to do is
set a 1 which is the activations of the
input layer set that to equal to X I
that is the inputs for our training
example and then we're going to perform
forward propagation to compute the
activations for layer 2 layer 3 and so
on up to the final layer layer capital L
next we're going to use the output label
Y I from the specific example that we're
looking at to compute the error term
Delta L for the output layer so Delta L
is what our hypotheses output minus what
the target label was and then we're
going to use the back propagation
algorithm to compute Delta L minus 1
Delta L minus 2 and so on down to Delta
2 and once again there is no Delta 1
because we don't associate an error term
with the input layer and finally we're
going to use these capital Delta terms
to accumulate these partial derivative
terms that we wrote down on the previous
line and by the way if you look at this
expression this possible to vectorize
this 2 concretely if you think of Delta
IJ as a matrix indexed by subscript IJ
then if Delta L is a matrix so you can
rewrite this as Delta L gets updated as
Delta L plus lower case Delta L plus 1
times a L transpose so that's a
vectorized implementation of this that
automatically does this update for all
values of I and J finally after
executing the body of the for loop we
did go outside the for loop and we
compute the following we'll compute
capital D as follows and we have two
separate cases for J equals 0 and J
naught equals 0 the case of J equals 0
corresponds to the bias term so when J
equals 0 that's why we're missing this
extra regularization term finally while
the formal proof is pretty complicated
what you can show is that once you've
computed these D terms that is exactly
the partial derivative of the cost
function with respect to each of your
parameters and so you can use those in
either gradient descent or in one of the
advanced optimization algorithms
so that's the backpropagation algorithm
and how you compute derivatives of
movements of your cost function for a
neural network I know this looks like it
was a lot of details and this is a lot
of steps strung together but both in the
programming assignments right out and
later in this video will give you a
summary of this so you can have all the
pieces in the algorithm together so that
you know exactly what you want need to
implement if you want to implement back
propagation to compute the derivatives
of your neural networks cost function
with respect to its parameters